(hip-hop music)
The solution to callback hell is to use a promise.
Now, a promise is a new idea
that we're learning here in this course.
And a promise is this idea of an IOU
for something that will happen in the future.
So if you think of our timer,
or you think of some data being returned from an API,
or you think of someone giving access
to a webcam or a microphone,
when we request those things,
when we request a timer to start a data to be requested
or a microphone to give access to,
what we often get as when we request those things
is not the immediate data back,
'cause those things take time,
but instead of getting the immediate data return,
we would get a promise.
And you can sort of think of, like me,
I'm holding in my hand right now a little promise
and it's a little ticket that says, whoo,
I might get a timer at some point
or I have this ticket for some data,
and eventually, at some point,
I'll probably get some data back.
It could also fail, which is called rejecting.
We'll talk about that in just a second.
Or if you're asking for a user's webcam,
if we take a look at the, what do we call that?
The exercise
with the face detection.
You see that we asked for the user's microphone
and then went ahead and played it,
but we did this little await thing here,
meaning that we had to wait for the user
to click the Accept button in the browser
before they gave us access to their webcam.
So that happens all the time.
You need to wait for something to happen
before you can run the rest of the code.
And that is what a promise is.
So let's go ahead and make a little playground file here
in the playground folder.
We'll make a promises.html.
We'll give ourselves a little base here, call it Promises,
and we'll give ourselves a script tag.
Now, inside of that,
I want you to make a function called makePizza.
And inside of that, what we're gonna do
is we're going to make a pizza promise
because you can't just make a pizza instantly.
A pizza's, gotta eat that, you put the toppings on,
you gotta put your pepperoni on, you gotta bake the thing.
That takes time.
So what you can do is if you were to order a pizza
by phoning them or doing it online,
they will immediately give you
some sort of like order number,
and that's not the pizza.
You can't eat the order number,
but you know that that order number
or that receipt is a promise
that they will give it to you when it's finished.
So what we do here
is we make a promise, we'll say const pizzaPromise
is equal to new, capital P, Promise,
and then you return that pizzaPromise
from your function immediately.
So this is sort of the key point,
is that promises are made immediately,
but they do not resolve
until they are ready,
until the data comes back, until the timer is finished,
something like that.
So this idea
of
returning happening immediately
and resolving happening when it's done
is really important.
Now, a promise takes a callback function,
and that callback function is gonna give us two arguments.
We get the resolve function and we get the reject function.
The first one is always gonna be resolve,
the second one will be the reject.
And then what you can do
is when you are ready,
you can resolve this promise
and then if something went wrong,
we can reject this promise.
So what we get here
is, let's just immediately resolve the pizza,
let's use a little pizza emoji,
and we'll go down here and start using this function.
So if we do this const
pizza is equal to makePizza,
and we were to console.log the pizza,
what do you think we were gonna get?
This function returns a promise,
but that it's also resolved,
like do you think we're gonna get the pizza
or something else like a promise?
Let's open it up and see.
Ahh, you see what we get here?
We get a Promise.
It does show the status marked as resolved,
but that's not important just yet.
What's important here is that this function
doesn't give us the pizza,
it gives us a promise of pizza,
that at some point in the future,
I will either resolve to you a slice of pizza
or I will reject because something went wrong.
So let's make this function a little bit more robust.
We'll take in some toppings and we will resolve,
let's resolve, backticks, so Here is your pizza,
put a pizza emoji in there,
keep it interesting, with the toppings,
and then let's just interpolate the toppings.join,
and do that on a space.
Now, if I were to make a pepperoni,
we'll make that a pepperoniPromise,
we will make it
with
pepperoni,
and then we'll also do a canadianPromise,
and that is pepperoni,
mushrooms, onions.
Now, let's console.log both of those
and refresh.
You see we get two of our promises.
Now, how do I actually get the actual pizza itself?
And this is a little bit confusing
'cause the DevTools will show you the value
when it is resolved, but in JavaScript,
if you actually wanna access the value of the pizza,
it's not like you can say pepperoniPromise.value in here
and like, that's not gonna work.
See, it just says undefined.
There's no way to actually access it like that.
There will be when we hit async await.
But the way that we can access it
is we say pepperoniPromise.then
and you give it a callback function,
and that callback will pass you a pizza
and then we'll console.log Ahh, go it!
And then console.log the pizza that was passed back.
So now, when I refresh this,
it'd say Ahh, go it!
Here's your pizza with the toppings of pepperoni.
Now, this might seem like, why are you doing this, Wes?
This seems like a way harder way just to return data.
And it's because we haven't introduced
any sort of time delays into this.
So let's introduce
maybe a one second delay
for that the pizza needed to be cooked.
So what we'll do is inside of here,
we'll say wait one second for the pizza to cook,
and we'll say setTimeout function,
this setTimeout will take one second,
and then we will resolve
inside of the timeout.
Now, what's gonna happen
is, let's just take this pepperoni,
console.log pepperoniPromise,
you see immediately we get the Promise, which is pending,
and then one second later,
we actually get access to our pizza.
And that is a great example
of how we have to sometimes wait.
So let's go through this one more time.
We have a regular function that makes a Promise
and then immediately, that Promise is returned.
Often, what you'll see is instead of people
making a Promise and then returning it,
they will just skip the variable altogether
and then just return a new Promise immediately.
So that is a function
that immediately returns a new Promise.
Now, the logic to how the Promise gets resolved
is always inside of the Promise body,
and now that function will either resolve or reject
whenever it feels like it is ready.
In our case, we feel like the pizza
is ready after one second.
Then what you need to do
is to go ahead and run that function
and that will return what?
Returns a promise of pizza.
And then, (laughs) no pun intended,
in order to get the pizza,
the way that you access the resolved value
is by chaining a .then onto it.
So that will look a little bit something like this.
If I say console.log Starting
and console.log finishing,
Starting, finishing immediately,
and then this promise will only run when it's like.
We're gonna look at how we can use async await
to actually do that sequentially if we like to,
but right now, we know that we can chain a .then onto it.
So why is that anymore useful than a regular callback?
'Cause maybe to you,
that just looks like a regular old callback.
Well, if I wanted to make multiple pizzas one after another,
and let's say I have an oven
that can only cook one pizza at a time,
what we could do is, let's back this up here,
I'm just gonna delete this entirely,
let's delete the Canadian pizza,
and we can even just delete this,
so we've got makePizza pepperoni,
we could chain a .then immediately onto that function.
Why?
Because makePizza returns a Promise
which allows us to chain a .then onto it,
which will give a function that has a pizza,
and then we can just console.log the pizza.
Let's see if it still works.
After one second, Here's your pizza
with the toppings of pepperoni.
Now, the cool thing about that
is, is from this then, if you return another makePizza
with,
let's say ham and cheese,
what's cool about that
is you can chain another .then onto that,
say function, console.log, again, we can say the pizza,
and we'll console.log the pizza again.
One second, one second later, you get the second one.
And you can go as long as you want.
Often, people will like to do this.
Indent it like that.
It's a little bit more readable
because it puts them each onto their own line.
You can put the then on its own line as well.
See if it still works.
You notice that it didn't put any semicolons here
because these are chained.
They're just on their own line.
But we can go,
and from this one, return another makePizza,
which looks a little something like this.
I don't know, what do you put on your pizza?
Hot peppers
and onion
and feta.
How do you get access to that?
Well, .then,
function,
pizza,
console.log pizza.
And you see how we can go on and on.
One,
two,
three.
We're allowed to chain it.
Now, this, previously, when we're looking at the one
where we were adding and removing the classes,
that was all nested and we were in callback hell.
This is the promise land
which allows us to keep all of this one level deep.
The downside to that is that this will still run first
and then this will then run right after.
See, First, Right after?
We're gonna look at how we can use async await
to get around that.
But you'll know that, again, if we'd look at the call stack,
what happens is it runs that, then it runs this function
which immediately returns a Promise, then it runs this one,
and then it goes back here when that Promise is resolved
and keeps going down that Promise chain.
Let's make this makePizza function
a little bit more resilient as well.
We'll take in the toppings
and we'll assume that's an array.
Sometimes, people might order a pizza with nothing on it.
So why don't we default that to an empty array.
And then what we wanna do
is for every single topping they have, add 200 milliseconds
to an initial bake time of 500.
So we'll go down here, let's just say const
amountOfTimeToBake
is equal to, we'll take 500 milliseconds to bake the pizza,
and then for every topping that they have, toppings.length,
we'll multiply that by 200 milliseconds,
then we'll take the amountOfTimeToBake
and pass that to our timeout.
Now, what should happen is that ham and cheese
should be much faster than this one.
Let's just make sure it still works.
Good.
And then let's go a little further.
Return another one here.
Let's give it nothing.
Do another one
where we have a very long amount of toppings,
one, two, three, four, okay, tons of 'em in here.
That should take a very long time.
It's ready.
You see that that one went really quickly
'cause there were no toppings
and then this last one will take a couple seconds.
Oh, it's never gonna,
it will resolve, but we're never console.logging it
so we need a final .then at the end where we have our pizza
and look, I'm gonna use an arrow function here
just to show you that you can do that as well,
and we'll console.log All done!
Here is your last pizza.
Console.log pizza.
Beautiful.
Now, let's say
we have a huge oven
and we're able to make all of the pizzas at once.
Well, what you can do is you can actually run them
concurrently instead of one after another.
This is referred to as sequentially,
where you do one and then the next
and then the next and then the next.
But
if you had maybe 10 employees
and a huge oven where you could cook 'em all at once,
then we can actually do that with JavaScript.
It looks a little bit something like this.
Run them concurrently.
So we'll say const pizzaPromise
is equal to, pizzaPromise1 is equal
to
makePizza.
Actually, we'll just take a few of these out of here.
We'll say we'll take this one,
and we'll get pizzaPromise2,
that,
let's put this big one in there,
and we'll do ham and cheese as well.
We don't need the return there.
pizzaPromise3, makePizza,
ham
and cheese,
okay.
Now,
what I want to know is how do I know when they are all done?
I'm just gonna comment out these right here.
How do I know when all three of these promises are done?
Well, I could say
pizzaPromise1.then pizza,
console.log
pizza,
and I could duplicate that two more times
'cause you can chain the then on either one,
but
these are just gonna pop into my console
whenever they're done in whichever order they are done.
That's not really what we want.
But we can make these into a mega promise
that we can then wait upon.
Because if you've got three different promises
and all you care about
is when all three of them are finished,
what you can do is you can make a mega promise.
We'll call it a dinnerPromise.
Const
dinnerPromise
is equal to,
capital P, Promise.all,
so Promise.all is a, what do you call
these types of methods that live on the mama directly?
That's right, static methods.
Promise.all is a static method,
sort of like a little helper,
and it takes an array of promises, baby promises,
pizzaPromise1, pizzaPromise2,
and pizzaPromise3,
and that makes one big promise,
and then we can say dinnerPromise.then,
and I'm not sure, like what do we get?
Pizzas,
and we'll console.log the pizzas.
Now, we wait for all three to be finished.
And boom, what do we get?
We get an array of all three of them.
So if you wanted the first pizza,
it would be the zero, one, and two.
What is pretty common way to do this
is to destructure these pizzas.
So let's make it into a regular function
so we're not getting too crazy here.
Function,
and
we say const,
we'll use an array destructuring,
so we'll say, what do we call this first one?
We'll call that hottie,
and we'll call the second one garbagePail,
and we'll call the third one
hamAndCheese,
is equal to pizzas.
Now, I have three variables,
and I can log them or use them however I want,
so console.log hottie, garbagePail, and hamAndCheese.
Boom!
It's not a very good console.log, but they're all there.
Similarly, what people will do
is you don't have to destructure these
in the body of the function.
You can actually destructure this argument directly
with square brackets like that,
and we can get rid of that.
What that is saying is take the first argument
and destructure into, the first item into hotties,
second item into garbagePail,
and the third one into hamAndCheese.
Let's make sure that still works.
Boom!
It's still working good.
So Promise.all
will take all of your promises
and will only resolve
when all three of the sub-promises
have been resolved themselves.
Similarly, there's also Promise.race,
so you could take this dinnerPromise and listen to it again.
So we could make another one.
Say const firstPizza,
so like maybe someone is super hungry
and I just wanna know whatever the first pizza is,
give it to me and I'll eat it.
So, firstPizza, and we'll just copy this,
we'll say Promise dot, not all, but Promise.race,
and we can take the firstPizza,
say firstPizza, maybe it's firstPizzaPromise
.then, and then we'll just say pizza,
say You must be hungry,
here is the first one ready.
That's a lot of pizza.
There we go.
You must be hungry, here is the first one ready.
The ham and cheese one was done before anything else.
You can see our other one resolved couple seconds later.
See?
Boom, ready.
Couple seconds later,
you see that all three of them are finished.
So Promise.all will wait for all of them,
Promise.race will wait for the first one
to finish rendering,
and then there is also a couple other ones
which we'll talk about when we get into error handling.
So that is a very high level of promises.
We've got a bunch more videos
on that error handling, async await.
Let's get into that now.